MirgationGuide.md, before:

# Migration Guide

This contains information for migrating library versions.

## V0.1.0 -> v0.2.0

### libcontainer

- The `Rootless` struct has been re-named as `UserNamespaceConfig` , `RootlessIDMapper` has been re-named to `UserNamespaceIDMapper` , and correspondingly the `RootlessError` has been re-named to `UserNamespaceError` . This is due to the fact that the structure was to be used for containers when a new user namespace is to be created, and that is not strictly only for rootless uses. Accordingly, the fields of various structs has been updated to reflect this change :
  - rootless (module name) -> user_ns
  - Rootless.rootless_id_mapper -> UserNamespaceConfig.id_mapper
  - LibcontainerError::Rootless -> LibcontainerError::UserNamespace
  - ContainerBuilderImpl.rootless -> ContainerBuilderImpl.user_ns_config
  - ContainerArgs.rootless -> ContainerArgs.user_ns_config

- Executor now contains 2 methods for implementation. We introduce a `validate` step in addition to execute. The `validate` should validate the input OCI spec. The step runs after all the namespaces are entered and rootfs is pivoted.

- Executor is now composible instead of an array of executor. To implement multiple executor, create a new executor that runs all the executor. The users are now in control of how multiple executor are run.

Commit message:

podman rootless with dbus native (#2370)
* Move dbus_native code to youki, add tests

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* (incomplete) move individual systemd components to dbus_native

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* (incomplete) Change tests to use dbus_native, move
systemdClientInterface into dbus_native

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* (incomplete) Change variant to actual enum, Fix types for systemd

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Fix bug in vector ser/de

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Fix mut requirements, minor lints etc., add client id in dbus

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Add implementation for proxy methods

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Split dbus error from SystemdClientError

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* implement system and session connection creation

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Fix typos and failing feature test build

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Completely remove dbus dependency and add docs regarding dbus-native

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

* Update migration guide, move documentation od dbus_native to cgroups

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Yashodhan Joshi <yjdoc2@gmail.com>

MirgationGuide.md, after:

# Migration Guide

This contains information for migrating library versions.

## v0.2.0 -> v0.3.0

### libcgroups
- Switched from dbus-rs to a native dbus implementation see [#2208](https://github.com/containers/youki/issues/2208) for motivation behind this. This replaces the `dbus` module with `dbus_native` module. However, As this is not in public interface for the crate, the users of this crate should not need any code changes. As this removes the dependency on the `libdbus` system library, you can uninstall it if desired.

## v0.1.0 -> v0.2.0

### libcontainer

- The `Rootless` struct has been re-named as `UserNamespaceConfig` , `RootlessIDMapper` has been re-named to `UserNamespaceIDMapper` , and correspondingly the `RootlessError` has been re-named to `UserNamespaceError` . This is due to the fact that the structure was to be used for containers when a new user namespace is to be created, and that is not strictly only for rootless uses. Accordingly, the fields of various structs has been updated to reflect this change :
  - rootless (module name) -> user_ns
  - Rootless.rootless_id_mapper -> UserNamespaceConfig.id_mapper
  - LibcontainerError::Rootless -> LibcontainerError::UserNamespace
  - ContainerBuilderImpl.rootless -> ContainerBuilderImpl.user_ns_config
  - ContainerArgs.rootless -> ContainerArgs.user_ns_config

- Executor now contains 2 methods for implementation. We introduce a `validate` step in addition to execute. The `validate` should validate the input OCI spec. The step runs after all the namespaces are entered and rootfs is pivoted.

- Executor is now composible instead of an array of executor. To implement multiple executor, create a new executor that runs all the executor. The users are now in control of how multiple executor are run.
